Article about dump data index from OS cluster (#635)
aiven/devportal: docs/products/opensearch/howto/import-opensearch-data-using-elasticsearch-dump.rst

To copy the index data, we will be using ``elasticsearch-dump`` `tool <elashttps://github.com/elasticsearch-dump/elasticsearch-dump>`__. You can read the `instructions on GitHub <https://github.com/elasticsearch-dump/elasticsearch-dump/blob/master/README.md>`_ on how to install it. From this library, we will use ``elasticdump`` command to copy the input index data to an specific output. 

.. note::

    Make sure to have ``elasticsearch-dump`` `tool <elashttps://github.com/elasticsearch-dump/elasticsearch-dump>`__ installed for the next steps.

.. _copy-data-from-os-to-os:

Copying data from OpenSearch to Aiven OpenSearch
------------------------------------------------

Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* OpenSearch cluster as the ``input`` (can be in Aiven or elsewhere)
* Aiven for OpenSearch cluster as the ``output``

.. note::
    
    The ``input`` and ``ouput`` can be either an OpenSearch URL or a file path (local or remote file storage). In this particular case, we are using both URLs, one from an **OpenSearch cluster** and the other one from **Aiven for OpenSearch cluster**. 

Here are some information you need to collect to copy your data:

> OpenSearch cluster:

Reviewer: Can we also state here that this is the `input` OS cluster? And then the output in the following section?

Author: I explained in the general comment why I do not think this is necessary. I have actually cleaned up and removed thoe ``input`` and ``output``

> * OpenSearch cluster URL , for e.g. ``http://opensearch-url:9243/``

Reviewer: Can we have this as ``INPUT_SERVICE_URI`` and refer to it in the below calls?

Author: yes, we can! I will add it

Aiven for OpenSearch:

> * ``INPUT_INDEX_NAME``: the index that you aim to copy from your input source.

Reviewer: Shouldn't the INPUT_INDEX_NAME be in the OpenSearch cluster section?

Author: Makes sense, I will move it

.. code-block:: shell

    elasticdump \
    --input=INPUT_SERVICE_URI/INPUT_INDEX_NAME \
    --output=SERVICE_URI/OUTPUT_INDEX_NAME \
    --type=mapping

Import data 
~~~~~~~~~~~

This is how you can copy your index data from an OpenSearch cluster (can be in Aiven or elsewhere) to an Aiven for OpenSearch one.

.. code-block:: shell

    elasticdump \
    --input=INPUT_SERVICE_URI/INPUT_INDEX_NAME \
    --output=SERVICE_URI/OUTPUT_INDEX_NAME \
    --type=data

When the dump is completed, you can check that the index is available in the OpenSearch service you send it to. You will be able to find it under the **Indexes** tab in your Aiven console.

.. _copy-data-from-os-to-s3:

Copying data from Aiven OpenSearch to AWS S3
--------------------------------------------

Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Aiven for OpenSearch cluster as the ``input``
* AWS S3 bucket as the ``output``

You need to collect the following information about your Aiven for OpenSearch cluster and your AWS service:

Aiven for OpenSearch:

> * ``SERVICE_URI`: OpenSearch service URI, which you can find in Aiven's dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``SERVICE_URI``: OpenSearch service URI, which you can find in Aiven's dashboard.
```

Dump OpenSearch index using ``elasticsearch-dump``
==================================================

It is a good practice to perform backups of your OpenSearch data to another storage service. This way you can access your data and restore it if something unexpected happens to it. 

In this article, you can find out how to dump your OpenSearch data to an:

* :ref:`Aiven OpenSearch <copy-data-from-os-to-os>`
* :ref:`AWS S3 bucket <copy-data-from-os-to-s3>`

> To copy the index data, we will be using ``elasticsearch-dump`` `tool <elashttps://github.com/elasticsearch-dump/elasticsearch-dump>`__. You can read the `instructions on GitHub <https://github.com/elasticsearch-dump/elasticsearch-dump/blob/master/README.md>`_ in how to install it. From this library, we will use ``elasticdump`` command to copy the ``input`` index data to an specific ``output``. 

Reviewer: I would reference ``input`` and ``output``  as code only close to the command itself
```suggestion
To copy the index data, we will be using ``elasticsearch-dump`` `tool <elashttps://github.com/elasticsearch-dump/elasticsearch-dump>`__. You can read the `instructions on GitHub <https://github.com/elasticsearch-dump/elasticsearch-dump/blob/master/README.md>`_ on how to install it. From this library, we will use the ``elasticdump`` command to copy the input index data to a specific output. 
```

.. note::

    Make sure to have ``elasticsearch-dump`` `tool <elashttps://github.com/elasticsearch-dump/elasticsearch-dump>`__ installed for the next steps.

.. _copy-data-from-os-to-os:

Copying data from OpenSearch to Aiven OpenSearch
------------------------------------------------

Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* OpenSearch cluster as the ``input`` (can be in Aiven or elsewhere)
* Aiven for OpenSearch cluster as the ``output``

.. note::
    
    The ``input`` and ``ouput`` can be either an OpenSearch URL or a file path (local or remote file storage). In this particular case, we are using both URLs, one from an **OpenSearch cluster** and the other one from **Aiven for OpenSearch cluster**. 

Here are some information you need to collect to copy your data:

OpenSearch cluster:

* OpenSearch cluster URL , for e.g. ``http://opensearch-url:9243/``

Aiven for OpenSearch:

> * ``INDEX_NAME``: the name of the index that you aim to backup.

Reviewer: isn't this the target index name, not the one you aim to backup? Also can i backup an index named `students` into an index named `stud` or do they need to share the same name? 
If it's the first case (names can be different) I would use two different names like `INPUT_INDEX_NAME` and `OUTPUT_INDEX_NAME`

Author: Good you mention! I had not tested this but I tested now and you can change the output index name (not necessarily to keep the same from the input one). I will make the changes.

Import mapping
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The process of defining how a document and the fields are stored and indexed is called mapping. When no data structure is specified, we rely on OpenSearch to automatically detect the fields using dynamic mapping. However, we can set our data mapping before the data is sent:

.. code-block:: shell

    elasticdump \
    --input=http://opensearch-url:9243/INDEX_NAME \
    --output=SERVICE_URI/INDEX_NAME \
    --type=mapping

Import data 
~~~~~~~~~~~

This is how you can copy your index data from an OpenSearch cluster (can be in Aiven or elsewhere) to an Aiven for OpenSearch one.

.. code-block:: shell

    elasticdump \
    --input=http://opensearch-url:9243/INDEX_NAME \
    --output=SERVICE_URI/INDEX_NAME \
    --type=data

When the dump is completed, you can check that the index is available in the OpenSearch service you send it to. You will be able to find it under the **Indexes** tab in your Aiven console.

.. _copy-data-from-os-to-s3:

Copying data from Aiven OpenSearch to AWS S3
--------------------------------------------

Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Aiven for OpenSearch cluster as the ``input``
* AWS S3 bucket as the ``output``

> You need to collect this information about your Aiven for OpenSearch cluster and your AWS service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to collect the following information about your Aiven for OpenSearch cluster and your AWS service:
```

> Dump OpenSearch index using ``elasticsearch-dump``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Backup OpenSearch indexes using ``elasticsearch-dump``
```

Reviewer: Or is this for Copying OS indexes?

Author: I think they are all correct, so I tried to add the most close to the tool which is dumping the indexes. I wonder what the user would look first... I am not 100% sure about backup without more context. Otherwise, I'd expect the backup to be in the same system.

Author: dump: copy (stored data) to a different location, especially so as to protect against loss.

Author: I do not think is indexes is the right word because I am showing how to move one index. Here you can find similar tools or articles:

https://github.com/ianneub/elasticsearch-to-s3
https://devcoops.com/dump-es-index-to-s3/

So dump seems to fit in this case.

==================================================

It is a good practice to perform backups of your OpenSearch data to another storage service. This way you can access your data and restore it if something unexpected happens to it. 

In this article, you can find out how to dump your OpenSearch data to an:

* :ref:`OpenSearch cluster <copy-data-from-os-to-os>`
* :ref:`AWS S3 bucket <copy-data-from-os-to-s3>`

> We will be using ``elasticsearch-dump`` `tool <elashttps://github.com/elasticsearch-dump/elasticsearch-dump>`__ for these processes. To install the ``elasticsearch-dump``, read the `instructions <https://github.com/elasticsearch-dump/elasticsearch-dump/blob/master/README.md>`_ on GitHub.

Reviewer: I try to stay away from `this` as much as possible and state clearly what we are doing
```suggestion
To copy the index data, we will be using ``elasticsearch-dump`` `tool <elashttps://github.com/elasticsearch-dump/elasticsearch-dump>`__. To install the ``elasticsearch-dump``, read the `instructions <https://github.com/elasticsearch-dump/elasticsearch-dump/blob/master/README.md>`_ on GitHub.
```

.. _copy-data-from-os-to-os:

Copying data from OpenSearch to Aiven OpenSearch
------------------------------------------------

Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> * Aiven for OpenSearch cluster 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Target Aiven for OpenSearch cluster 
```

Author: I will explain why I am not sure this is a good idea in a general comment. So same for the next suggestions.

> * OpenSearch cluster 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Source OpenSearch cluster (can be in Aiven or elsewhere)
```

> * ``elasticsearch-dump`` `tool <elashttps://github.com/elasticsearch-dump/elasticsearch-dump>`__ installed

Reviewer: This is already stated, I would remove it

> To import the data we will use ``elasticdump`` command. This command works by copying the ``input`` index data to an specific ``output``. The ``input`` and ``ouput`` can be either an OpenSearch URL or a file path (local or remote file storage). In this particular case, we are using both URLs, one from an **OpenSearch cluster** and the other one from **Aiven for OpenSearch cluster**.

Reviewer: Why don't we put the first sentence when we introduce ``elasticsearch-dump`` since it's common (and not specific to the OS -> OS migration)

Author: ok, I added to the upper level cause it is relevant for both.

> Import mapping

Reviewer: What does the `import mapping` does? I believe we need to explain what we are doing before showing code. Also can we use UPPER_CASE_PLACEHOLDERS and reference a  prerequisite section with all of them (https://developer.aiven.io/docs/products/kafka/kafka-connect/howto/jdbc-sink.html is a good example)

Author: done!

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: shell

    elasticdump \
    --input=http://opensearch-url:9243/index_name \
    --output=SERVICE_URI/index_name \
    --type=mapping

> Import data 

Reviewer: Same comment as before, we need a bit more wording to tell what this section is doing

Author: sure!

~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: shell

    elasticdump \
    --input=http://opensearch-url:9243/index_name \
    --output=SERVICE_URI/index_name \
    --type=data

> When the dump is completed, you can check that the index is available in the OpenSearch service you send it to. You will able to find it under the **Indexes** tab in your Aiven console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the dump is completed, you can check that the index is available in the target Aiven for OpenSearch service. You will able to find it under the **Indexes** tab in your `Aiven Console <https://console.aiven.io/>`_.
```

.. _copy-data-from-os-to-s3:

> Copying data from Aiven OpenSearch to S3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Backup data from Aiven OpenSearch to AWS S3
```

Author: in this context, I think they mean the same thing. But I can add AWS name.

----------------------------------------

Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> * Aiven for OpenSearch cluster 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Source Aiven for OpenSearch cluster 
```

> * S3 bucket

Reviewer: What info do we need about the S3 bucket?
```suggestion
* Target S3 bucket
```

> * ``elasticsearch-dump`` `tool <elashttps://github.com/elasticsearch-dump/elasticsearch-dump>`__ installed

Reviewer: This is a common prereq (also title of the article) I would remove it

Export OpenSearch index data to S3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use ``elasticsearch-dump`` command to copy the data from your **Aiven OpenSearch cluster** to your **S3 bucket**. For the ``input`` use your Aiven OpenSearch ``SERVICE_URI``. For the ``output``, choose an AWS S3 file path including the file name that you want for your document. 

.. Tip::

    You can find the ``SERVICE_URI`` on Aiven's dashboard.

.. code-block:: shell

    elasticdump \
    --s3AccessKeyId "${access_key_id}" \
    --s3SecretAccessKey "${access_key_secret}" \

>     --input=SERVICE_URI/index_name --output "s3://${bucket_name}/${file_name}.json"  

Reviewer: I would spend time describing the format of the s3 url in more detail and also the access Key and Id (you can find a reference https://developer.aiven.io/docs/products/kafka/kafka-connect/howto/s3-sink-connector-aiven.html)

Author: I've added some general explanation and a link to AWS docs. 

I'd not aim to explain the specifics about AWS credentials because of:

- not the goal of the article. AWS docs do that better already too.
- expect the reader to be familiar with AWS terms

I looked up the aws documentation and I was able to figure out without previous knowledge. If we have more articles that involves dealing with those credentials, we can think about adding an external article for it or continue linking to the right ressources.
